 TITLE II--ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

       The bill provides $8,816,888,000 for the Environmental
     Protection Agency (EPA). The Agency is expected to comply
     with the instructions and requirements at the beginning of
     this division, in House Report 119-215, and Senate Report
     119-46, unless otherwise specified below. Additional details,
     instructions, and requirements follow below and in the table
     at the end of this division.
       In lieu of the paragraph titled ``Reprogramming'' in Senate
     Report 119-46, the Committees note that the Agency must
     follow the reprogramming directives in Section 421 of this
     Act and in the front matter of this explanatory statement.

                         Science and Technology

       For Science and Technology programs, the bill provides
     $744,195,000. The bill transfers $17,607,000 from the
     Hazardous Substance Superfund account to this account. The
     agreement provides the following specific funding levels and
     direction:
       Clean Air.--All activities are funded at the amounts
     enacted in fiscal year 2024, with reductions taken consistent
     with current Agency structure, except as specified below.
       The Committees recognize the important role that Clean Air
     Allowance Trading Programs play in improving air quality and
     reducing pollution and note the Science Advisory Board
     panel's review of the Clean Air Allowance Trading Program.
     The Committees direct the Agency to continue this effort, and
     provide $5,260,000 to modernize the Clean Air Status and
     Trends Network [CASTNet].
       Research: Air and Energy--Within available funds, the
     Committees continue funding for the study under the heading
     ``Partnership Research'' contained in the explanatory
     statement of Public Law 115-141.
       Research: Chemical Safety for Sustainability.--The
     agreement provides $119,744,000.
       Research: National Priorities.--The bill provides
     $27,253,000 for Research: National Priorities, including
     $9,500,000 for extramural research grants, independent of the
     Science to Achieve Results (STAR) grant program, as specified
     under this heading in Senate Report 119-46 and House Report
     119-215.
       The Committees support the Agency's effort to prioritize
     new federal research that will help farmers, ranchers, and
     rural communities manage PFAS impacts in agricultural
     settings and communities and provide $9,000,000 to continue
     that work. The Agency is directed to follow the directives as
     specified under this heading in House Report 119-215.
       Consistent with House Report 119-215, the agreement
     provides $2,475,000 for advancing full scale applied research
     and testing capabilities to address threats to drinking water
     and associated infrastructure at Water Security Test Bed
     facilities.
       The bill provides $6,278,000 for Congressionally Directed
     Spending grants. Further detail on the projects is located in
     the table titled ``Interior and Environment Incorporation of
     Community Project Funding Items/Congressionally Directed
     Spending Items'' accompanying this explanatory statement.
       Research: Safe and Sustainable Water Resources.--Of the
     funds provided, up to $5,000,000 shall be used for grants
     under section 2007 of America's Water Infrastructure Act
     (P.L. 115-270).
       Ensure Safe Water.--This joint agreement includes only the
     following: the Agency is encouraged to continue to implement
     Unregulated Contaminant Monitoring Rule 6 and consider
     additional contaminants, including metabolites, for
     inclusion.
       Additional Guidance.--The following additional guidance is
     included:
       Harmful Algal Blooms.--The agreement provides $6,000,000
     for research on harmful algal blooms in accordance with House
     Report 119-215 and Senate Report 119-46.
       Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS) Program.--In lieu
     of the directives under the heading ``IRIS Program
     Integrity'' in House Report 119-215, the Committees provide
     the following direction. The Committees are aware that the
     IRIS program has been listed on GAO's High-Risk List since
     2009. Therefore, the Committees direct the Agency to address
     the concerns outlined in the GAO High-Risk List report and to
     ensure the Agency is utilizing best available science in its
     approach to chemical risk assessment and management.
       Ethylene Oxide.--The Committees are aware that NASEM is
     currently reviewing the Texas Commission on Environmental
     Quality's Ethylene Oxide Development Support Document and
     expect that the Agency will evaluate the results of that
     review prior to making any regulatory decisions.
       Landfill Emissions Research.--Consistent with direction in
     the explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 117-328,
     the bill provides the enacted level for landfill emissions
     research.
       eRINs.--In lieu of the paragraph titled ``Electric
     Pathways'' in Senate report 119-46, the Committees direct the
     Agency to provide a briefing within 90 days of enactment of
     this Act on the Agency's proposed actions related to eRINs
     within the Renewable Fuel Standards program.
       Cellulosic Biofuels.--Not later than 30 days after the date
     of enactment of this Act, the Committees direct the Agency to
     submit to the Committees a report related to fuel derived
     from waste plastic or waste tires, including any plan the
     Agency may have to qualify such waste as cellulosic biofuel
     under section 211(o) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.
     7545(o)). In preparing the report, the Agency shall consult
     with relevant stakeholders and consider incorporating any
     input from such stakeholders.
       Science to Achieve Results (STAR) Grants.--The agreement
     provides funds to continue the STAR program and directs the
     Agency to distribute grants consistent with fiscal year 2024.
       Statutory Requirements.--In lieu of the direction provided
     under the paragraph titled ``Office of Research and
     Development'' in Senate Report 119-46, the Committees
     acknowledge that the Agency published an Addendum to its
     fiscal year 2026 budget request related to consolidations,
     reorganizations, realignments, and other transfers of
     resources. The Committees expect that the Agency's mission
     and all statutory obligations will continue, and that any
     current or future budgetary requests related to such actions
     are subject to and contingent upon compliance with applicable
     reprogramming and notification requirements.
       Wildfire Smoke Research.--The Agency is directed to follow
     the guidance in the joint explanatory statement accompanying
     Public Law 117-103.

           PROGRAM FUNDING FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Program                           Funding Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Clean Air and Climate, Clean Air Status and                       $5,260
 Trends Network Modernization..................
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 Environmental Programs and Management

       For Environmental Programs and Management, the bill
     provides $3,114,671,000. The agreement provides the following
     specific funding levels and direction:
       Clean Air.--The agreement maintains the enacted level for
     the Agency's wood stove certification and testing standards
     work. The Agency is directed to use the base funding to
     increase its staffing and other required efforts to support
     the wood stove certification and testing program. The Agency
     is further directed to brief the Committees within 60 days of
     enactment of this Act on improvements the Agency plans to
     make to the program and how it will better communicate with
     State and local stakeholders.
       Wildfire Smoke Grant Funding.--The Committees commend EPA
     for its efforts through the AirNow Fire and Smoke Map to
     better forecast and communicate the impact of wildfire smoke
     on communities. The Committees are concerned that air quality
     monitors are not currently distributed equitably across
     impacted communities. The Committees encourage EPA to expand
     its support for

[[Page H480]]

     wildfire smoke monitoring, including improving
     instrumentation, technical assistance, and outreach, using
     the resources provided in this bill with a focus on
     traditionally underserved or under-monitored communities. The
     bill continues funding in State and Tribal Assistance Grants
     for wildfire smoke-related activities.
       Enforcement.--The bill provides $30,000,000 to continue
     providing grants within this program area and includes
     certain distribution requirements.
       Environmental Protection: National Priorities.--The bill
     provides $30,700,000, for a competitive grant program for
     qualified non-profit organizations to provide technical
     assistance for improved water quality or safe drinking water,
     adequate waste-water to small systems, or individual private
     well owners. The Agency shall provide $26,000,000 for
     Grassroots Rural and Small Community Water Systems Assistance
     Act (Public Law 114-98), for activities specified under
     section 1442(e) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C.
     300j-1(e)(8)). The Agency is also directed to provide
     $3,450,000 for grants to qualified not-for-profit
     organizations for technical assistance for individual private
     well owners, with priority given to organizations that
     currently provide technical and educational assistance to
     individual private well owners. The Agency is directed to
     provide on a national and multi-State regional basis,
     $1,250,000 for grants to qualified organizations for the sole
     purpose of providing on-site training and technical
     assistance for wastewater systems. The Agency shall require
     each grantee to provide a minimum 10 percent match, including
     in-kind contributions. The Agency is directed to allocate
     funds to grantees within 180 days of enactment of this Act.
       Geographic Programs.--The bill provides $690,202,000 as
     described in the table at the end of this division, and
     includes the following direction:
       Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI).--The agreement
     provides funding to the GLRI Distinct Tribal Program at no
     less than $16,500,000.
       Chesapeake Bay.--From within the amount provided, at least
     $11,000,000 is for nutrient and sediment removal grants, at
     least $11,000,000 is for small watershed grants to control
     polluted runoff from urban, suburban, and agricultural lands,
     and at least $9,000,000 is for State-based implementation in
     the most effective basins.
       Puget Sound.--The agreement provides $56,000,000 for the
     Puget Sound program and continues the direction contained in
     the explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 118-42.
       Long Island Sound.--The agreement provides $40,502,000 for
     the Long Island Sound program.
       South Florida.--Within the funds provided, the agreement
     provides at least $2,000,000 to monitor coral health in South
     Florida; $1,150,000 to enhance water quality and seagrass
     monitoring in the Caloosahatchee Estuary and Indian River
     Lagoon, especially with respect to assessing the impact of
     Lake Okeechobee discharges and harmful algal blooms;
     $1,150,000 to enhance water quality and seagrass monitoring
     in Florida Bay and Biscayne Bay, especially with respect to
     assessing the impact of Everglades Restoration projects and
     harmful algal blooms; and $1,000,000 for the expansion of the
     water quality and ecosystem health monitoring and prediction
     network which will use vetted, modern procedures for long-
     term monitoring of Florida waters, including molecular,
     algal, ocean floor, and seagrasses.
       Gulf of America.--The Committees note that hypoxia
     continues to be a growing cause for concern. The Committees
     direct the Agency to coordinate with the Department of
     Agriculture, the Gulf States, and other State, local, and
     private partners to leverage greater resources toward
     conservation projects on working-lands within the Gulf Region
     and Mississippi River Basin. The Agency is directed to
     distribute funds in the same manner as fiscal year 2024.
       Lake Champlain.--The agreement provides $25,500,000 for the
     Lake Champlain program. These funds shall be allocated
     through the Lake Champlain Basin Program, other than
     continuing the enacted levels to support significant, impact
     projects identified in the State implementation plan that
     will make measurable progress towards meeting the phosphorus
     reduction targets of the EPA's 2016 Phosphorus Total Maximum
     Daily Load Plan for Lake Champlain.
       Additionally, in carrying out the evaluation required by
     House Report 119-215, the Committees direct the Agency to
     consult with, and incorporate, feedback from impacted
     stakeholders.
       Northwest Forest Program.--The Committees continue to
     support the Northwest Forest Program at not less than fiscal
     year 2021 funding level.
       Information Exchange/Outreach.--Tribal capacity building is
     funded at not less than $14,414,000.
       Pesticide Licensing.--In lieu of the directives in House
     Report 119-215 under the heading ``Pesticide Licensing'', the
     agreement provides the following direction: The Committees
     recommend that as the Agency conducts Endangered Species Act
     (ESA) analyses, consistent with statutory and litigation
     requirements, it will consider best available data on
     pesticide usage, existing conservation practices, real-world
     studies on spray drift, ground water and surface water
     concentrations, and sub-county level species range maps.
       Additionally, in lieu of the report required under the
     heading ``Pesticide Licensing'' in Senate Report 119-46, the
     agreement provides the following direction. The Committees
     acknowledge the Agency's completion of the third-party audit
     as required by the Pesticide Registration and Review Act
     (PRIA 5), but note outstanding items. The Committees direct
     the Agency to provide quarterly briefings to the Committees
     regarding its resource evaluation and efforts to improve
     application reviews.
       Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA).--Of the
     funds provided under this program area, $9,000,000 is for
     implementation of a Federal permit program for coal
     combustion residuals in non-participating states, as
     authorized under section 4005(d)(2)(B) of the Solid Waste
     Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6945(d)(2)(B)), or to provide
     technical assistance to states establishing their own
     permitting program under section 4005(d) of the Solid Waste
     Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6945(d)).
       The Committees recognize cooperative federalism in
     implementing the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6091 et
     seq.) and note federal statutory requirements for
     nonhazardous waste when regulating scrap metal shredding
     operations.
       Ensure Clean Water.--The Committees support the work of the
     WaterSense and Trash Free Waters programs and encourage the
     continuance of these programs.
       The agreement provides up to $2,000,000 for integrated
     planning activities consistent with section 402(s) of the
     Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1342(s)).
       Ensure Clean Water: National Estuary Program/Coastal
     Waterways.--The agreement provides $40,000,000, of which the
     agreement provides $850,000 per estuary for each of the 28
     national estuaries in the National Estuary Program (NEP)
     authorized by section 320 of the Clean Water Act (Public Law
     92-500). Additionally, not less than $2,500,000 is provided
     for competitive grants.
       Ensure Safe Water.--Within available funds, the agreement
     provides no less than $5,000,000 for the Agency's continued
     work within the Underground Injection Control (UIC) program
     related to Class VI wells for geologic sequestration to help
     develop expertise and capacity at the Agency. These funds
     should be used by the Agency to expeditiously review and
     process Class VI permits and primacy applications from States
     and Tribes.
       In addition, the agreement provides $1,800,000 to support
     Class VI regulator education and training programs in
     conjunction with States or other eligible entities such as an
     association of States.
       Additional Guidance.--The following additional guidance is
     included:
       Agency Actions.--The Committees note the Agency's review of
     prior federal rulemakings related to stationary and
     transportation source emissions, methane and other
     pollutants, guidelines for oil and natural gas, and
     greenhouse gas reporting requirements for petroleum and
     natural gas systems.
       Attainment.--The Committees direct the Agency to provide a
     briefing not later than 90 days following the enactment of
     this Act on the statutory requirements related to considering
     the impact on ozone transport when making nonattainment
     classification determinations.
       Chemical Reviews.--In lieu of the directives in House
     Report 119-215 under the heading ``Toxics Risk Review and
     Prevention'' and in Senate Report 119-46 under the heading
     ``New Chemical Submissions'', the agreement provides the
     following direction:
       The Committees direct the Agency to meet all statutory
     requirements under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA)
     when reviewing new chemicals. Additionally, the Agency is
     directed to enhance communication, improve the transparency
     of the process, and communicate the status of submissions
     with new chemicals submitters. The Agency is directed to
     brief the Committees within 120 days of enactment of this Act
     on these efforts.
       Regarding Section 9 of TSCA, the Committees direct the
     Agency to revise the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with
     the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to
     meaningfully delineate between each Agency's role and clearly
     articulate the areas of collaboration between the agencies.
     Further, the Committees remind the Agency of the requirements
     in Section 9 of TSCA (15 U.S.C. 2608) related to responses
     from other Federal agencies.
       Clean Water.--The Committees encourage the Environmental
     Protection Agency to review previous rules related to Clean
     Water Act Section 401 water quality certification and
     effluent limitations for meat and poultry products.
       Coal Combustion Residuals.--The Committees note that the
     Agency is re-evaluating the final rule titled ``Hazardous and
     Solid Waste Management System: Disposal of Coal Combustion
     Residuals From Electric Utilities: Legacy CCR Surface
     Impoundments''.
       Northwest Area Contingency Plan Critical Energy
     Infrastructure Hub Resiliency Study.--The Committees are
     concerned by the potential environmental impacts from oil
     spills in the Columbia River Basin as a result of a potential
     seismic event. The Committees encourage the Agency to update
     the Area Contingency Plan and to collaborate with
     institutions of higher education and State, local, and Tribal
     governments to work with the community to develop earthquake
     resilient plans in urban areas and recommends $1,000,000
     within Ensure Clean Water program project area for this
     purpose.

[[Page H481]]

       Transboundary Watersheds.--The Committees direct the Agency
     to continue and expand its work coordinating with Federal
     State, local, and Tribal agencies to monitor and reduce
     transboundary mining pollution in the Kootenai watershed and
     other U.S.-British Columbia transboundary watersheds. The
     Committees provide $2,000,000 for such monitoring,
     management, and interagency activities in U.S.-British
     Columbia transboundary watersheds. The Committees remind the
     Agency of the direction in the explanatory statement
     accompanying Public Law 117-103 to brief the Committees on
     the Agency's progress to document baseline conditions and
     mining-related impacts, and any additional staff or resources
     needed for this project. The Committees direct the Agency to
     allocate these funds in its fiscal year 2026 operating plan
     to the appropriate program project area for carrying out
     these activities.
       Small Refinery Relief.--The Committees recognize that the
     Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) under Clean Air Act Section
     211(o)(9) provides that the Agency may exempt small
     refineries from compliance with the RFS in certain
     circumstances and that a small refinery ``may at any time
     petition the Administrator for an extension of the exemption
     for the reason of disproportionate economic hardship.'' The
     Committees direct that the Agency develop policies and
     procedures for making small refinery exemption decisions
     consistent with the findings of the impact of compliance
     costs on small refiners in the November 3, 2022, GAO report
     titled ``Renewable Fuel Standard: Actions Needed to Improve
     Decision-Making in the Small Refinery Exemption Program''.
       Hydrofluorocarbons.--The resources provided include funding
     for the phase down of the use of hydrofluorocarbons.
       Office of the Administrator.--In lieu of the direction
     provided under ``Office of the Administrator'' in Senate
     Report 119-46, the Committees acknowledge that the Agency
     published an Addendum to its fiscal year 2026 budget request
     related to consolidations, reorganizations, realignments, and
     other transfers of resources.

        PROGRAM FUNDING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AND MANAGEMENT
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Program                           Funding Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Information Exchange/Outreach, Environmental                      $9,500
 Education.....................................
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Coal                       9,000
 Combustion Residuals Federal Permit Program...
Ensure Clean Water, Urban Waters...............                    1,500
Ensure Clean Water, U.S.-British Columbia                          2,000
 Transboundary Watersheds Activities...........
Ensure Clean Water, Northwest Area Critical                        1,000
 Energy Infrastructure Hub Resiliency Study....
------------------------------------------------------------------------


              PROGRAM FUNDING FOR NATIONAL ESTUARY PROGRAM
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Program                           Funding Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Albemarle-Pamlico National Estuary Partnership.                     $850
Baratara-Terrebonne National Estuary Program...                      850
Barnegat Bay Partnership.......................                      850
Buzzards Bay National Estuary Program..........                      850
Casco Bay Estuary Partnership..................                      850
Coastal and Heartland National Estuary                               850
 Partnership...................................
Coastal Bend Bays and Estuaries Program........                      850
Delaware Center for the Inland Bays............                      850
Galveston Bay Estuary Program..................                      850
Indian River Lagoon National Estuary Program...                      850
Long Island Sound Study........................                      850
Lower Columbia Estuary Partnership.............                      850
Maryland Coastal Bays Program..................                      850
Massachusetts Bays National Estuary Partnership                      850
Mobile Bay National Estuary Program............                      850
Morro Bay National Estuary Program.............                      850
Narragansett Bay Estuary Program...............                      850
New York-New Jersey Harbor Estuary Program.....                      850
Partnership for the Delaware Estuary...........                      850
Peconic Estuary Partnership....................                      850
Piscataqua Region Estuaries Partnership........                      850
Puget Sound Partnership........................                      850
San Francisco Estuary Partnership..............                      850
San Juan Bay Estuary Program...................                      850
Santa Monica Bay National Estuary Program......                      850
Sarasota Bay Estuary Program...................                      850
Tampa Bay Estuary Program......................                      850
Tillamook Estuaries Partnership................                      850
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

       The bill provides $43,250,000 for the Office of Inspector
     General. The bill transfers $11,328,000 from the Hazardous
     Substance Superfund account to this account.

                        Buildings and Facilities

       The bill provides $40,676,000 for Buildings and Facilities.

                     Hazardous Substance Superfund


                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

       The bill provides $282,749,000 for the Hazardous Substance
     Superfund account and includes bill language to transfer
     $11,328,000 to the Office of Inspector General account and
     $17,607,000 to the Science and Technology account. The
     agreement provides the following additional direction:
       Research: Chemical Safety and Sustainability.--The
     agreement provides $5,714,000 for Research: Chemical Safety
     and Sustainability. The Agency is directed to include these
     funds as part of the transfer to the Science and Technology
     account.
       Research: Sustainable and Healthy Communities.--The
     agreement provides $11,448,000 for Research: Sustainable and
     Healthy Communities. The Agency is directed to include these
     funds as part of the transfer to the Science and Technology
     account.
       The Committees direct the Agency to submit to the
     Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of
     Representatives a report detailing the current and projected
     remediation needs, staffing requirements, and estimate of the
     latest timeline for remediating hazardous waste residing at
     the West Lake Landfill Superfund Site in Bridgeton, Missouri
     no later than 120 days after enactment of this Act.

          Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program

       The bill provides $88,903,000 for the Leaking Underground
     Storage Tank Trust Fund Program.

                       Inland Oil Spill Programs

       The bill provides $20,561,000 for Inland Oil Spill
     Programs.

                   State and Tribal Assistance Grants

       The bill provides $4,409,609,000 for the State and Tribal
     Assistance Grants program and includes the following specific
     funding levels and direction:
       Community Project Funding Items/Congressionally Directed
     Spending Items.--From within funds provided for
     capitalization grants for the Clean Water State Revolving
     Fund and the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund, the bill
     provides $892,762,272 from the Clean Water SRF and
     $715,364,627 from the Drinking Water SRF for Community
     Project Funding/Congressionally Directed Spending grants for
     the construction of drinking water, wastewater, and
     stormwater infrastructure and for water quality protection.
       Infrastructure Projects.--Each project shall provide not
     less than 20 percent matching funds from non-Federal sources,
     unless approved for a waiver. Applicable Federal requirements
     that would apply to a Clean Water State Revolving Fund or
     Drinking Water State Revolving Fund project grant recipient
     shall apply to a grantee receiving a Congressionally directed
     spending grant under this section. The Committees note that
     the following funds are to be treated as non-Federal funds
     and can be used to meet the non-Federal matching fund
     requirement: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
     Development, Community Development Block Grant Program; U.S.
     Department of Agriculture, Rural Development Program;
     Appalachian Regional Commission grants; and Delta Regional
     Authority grants. Funding made available to jurisdictions
     through the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (Public Law 117-
     2) is considered Federal funding and may not be applied
     towards the non-Federal cost share requirement.
       The Committees remain concerned that EPA does not have
     sufficient resources necessary to expeditiously implement
     this program and fully support recipients as they address
     applicable Federal grant requirements. Accordingly, the bill
     provides $13,300,000 in funding for salaries, expenses, and
     administration for Congressionally Directed Spending and
     Community Project Funding grants provided in previous fiscal
     years and this Act. While the Committees appreciate the
     technical assistance the Agency has provided in recent
     months, the Committees remain concerned that more work is
     needed to resolve the Agency's significant backlog of
     projects, as discussed in the fiscal year 2024 Senate
     appropriations hearing.
       Further, the Committees appreciate the Agency's engagement
     with the Committees regarding additional, potential solutions
     to help resolve the Agency's significant backlog of
     Congressionally Directed Spending and Community Project
     Funding grants. The Committees direct the Agency to identify
     other actions that will help obligate funding more quickly,
     including by adopting state environmental reviews, and to
     brief the Committees within 90 days of enactment of this Act
     on actions the Agency can take immediately and any barriers
     to taking additional actions. Further, the Committees direct
     the Agency to provide a report within 90 days of enactment of
     this Act on the Congressionally Directed Spending and
     Community Project Funding grant funding that has not been
     obligated or awarded in fiscal years 2022, 2023, and 2024.
     The Committees remind the Agency of the Biweekly Metrics
     Report.
       Diesel Emission Reduction Grants (DERA).--The Committees
     continue funding for the DERA program at the enacted level.
       Targeted Airshed Grants.--The Committees direct the Agency
     to follow the directive in Senate Report 118-83.
       Technical Assistance for Wastewater Treatment Works.--The
     Agency is directed to issue awards on an annual basis to the
     most qualified and experienced applicants necessary to
     provide quality uninterrupted training and technical
     assistance. The Agency is directed to allocate funds to
     grantees within 180 days of enactment of this Act.
       Wildfire Smoke Preparedness.--The bill provides $8,500,000
     for wildfire smoke preparedness grants. These grants shall be
     distributed on a competitive basis to States, federally
     recognized Tribes, public pre-schools, local educational
     agencies as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801(30), and non-profit
     organizations, for assessment, prevention, control, or
     abatement of wildfire smoke hazards in community buildings,
     including schools as defined in 20 U.S.C. 3610(6), and
     related activities. The Federal share of the costs of such
     activities shall not exceed 90 percent except that the
     Administrator may waive such cost share requirement in the
     case of facilities located in economically distressed
     communities. A maximum of 25 percent of grant funding under
     this paragraph during this fiscal year may go to recipients
     in any one State. Further, the Committees direct the Agency
     to allow for grants to be made for research purposes, in
     addition to current eligibility categories.

[[Page H482]]

       Categorical Grants.--The bill provides $1,109,833,000 for
     Categorical Grants. Funding levels are specified in the table
     at the end of this division.
       Categorical Grant: Resource Recovery and Hazardous Waste
     Grants.--The bill includes a provision supporting categorical
     grant funds for the purpose of providing grants to assist
     States in the development and implementation of State
     programs for the control of coal combustion residuals under
     section 2301 of the Water and Waste Act of 2016 (Public Law
     114-322), and the Agency is directed to continue funding of
     not less than $4,000,000 from the Hazardous Waste Financial
     Assistance categorical grants program project for this
     purpose. The Committees note that funds awarded under the
     authority provided by this act are not subject to section
     3011 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (Public Law 89-272).
       Categorical Grant: Public Water System Supervision.--Of the
     funds provided, $12,000,000 is to further support States,
     Territories, and Tribes in addressing PFAS and other
     contaminants of emerging concern as they carry out their
     Public Water System Supervision programs.
       PFAS.--The bill clarifies Congressional intent that funding
     provided in fiscal year 2026, including from Public Law 117-
     58, for grants for addressing contaminants under subsections
     (a) through (j) of section 1459A of the Safe Drinking Water
     Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19a) may be used by a State to provide
     assistance to benefit one or more owners of drinking water
     wells that are not public water systems or connected to a
     public water system for necessary and appropriate activities
     related to a contaminant pursuant to subsection (j) of
     section 1459A of the Safe Drinking Water Act. In implementing
     this funding, the Committees direct the Agency to encourage
     States to prioritize beneficiaries that make less than the
     average household income for the State.
       Use of Iron and Steel.--The bill includes language in title
     IV general provisions that stipulates requirements for the
     use of iron and steel in State Revolving Fund projects, and
     the agreement includes only the following guidance: the
     Committees acknowledge that the Agency may issue a waiver of
     said requirements for de minimis amounts of iron and steel
     building materials. The Committees emphasize that any coating
     processes that are applied to the external surface of iron
     and steel components that otherwise qualify under the
     procurement preference shall not render such products
     ineligible for the procurement preference regardless of where
     the coating processes occur, provided that final assembly of
     the products occurs in the United States.

      Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program Account

       The agreement provides a total of $72,274,000 for the Water
     Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) program.

       Administrative Provisions--Environmental Protection Agency


                     (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)

       The bill continues several administrative provisions from
     previous years.
       The bill includes a provision providing for further
     Congressional oversight.
       The bill includes a provision related to hiring authority
     for employees with special scientific capabilities.
       The bill includes a provision related to fulfilling the
     mission and statutory obligations of the agency.